---
layout: posts
title:  "3 SEO Tips"
date: 2019-02-20
categories: SEO
tags: [keywords, SEO, Tips, Stuffing, Research]
#icon: Enhanced-SEO.png
banner: Blog/3-SEO-Tips/seobanner.jpg
excerpt_separator: "<!-- more -->"
description: Tips on how to rank better through SEO.
permalink: /blog/:categories/:title:output_ext
---

Businesses on page 2 of the SERP might as well not exist.

It sounds harsh but it’s simply the reality that we all need to accept.

You know the drill—you want pizza so you get on your phone and do a search. Google presents its top 3 local options in the “Snack Pack” and 10
other organic results. You pick one, make a call, or pop into the pizza joint.

If you’re the local pizza joint, you want and need to appear on the first page for those target keywords.

<!-- more -->

<div class="resp-container">
  <iframe allowtransparency="true" title="Wistia video player" allowFullscreen frameborder="1" scrolling="no" class="resp-iframe" name="wistia_embed" src="https://fast.wistia.net/embed/iframe/fwzcknx96p" ></iframe>
</div>

<h2>Do Your Own Keyword Research</h2>

Keyword research should never be a one-time commitment, but rather an ever-changing process that involves a strategy and a comprehensive understanding of your business and your industry. Including keywords that are specific to your business and industry will help to ensure that the right customers are being driven to your door rather than just any customer. Although we want to increase our customer base, we don’t want to target consumers that may not find the value in our business.

<h2>Using the Right Keywords</h2>

Short-tail keywords, or keywords composed of very generic keywords, might seem appealing because they’re searched more often than long-tail keywords, however, they’re also a lot more competitive. So, unless you’re writing content for a large organization, like Apple or Macy’s, and consumers are likely searching specifically for your product, you don’t want to enter into a sea of competitors with big brands that have even bigger pockets.

Long-tail keywords, on the other hand, may not be as frequently typed into a search engine—think, “Egg” vs. “Poached Egg with Avocado and Bechemel”. By including more long-tail keywords into the content on your page, you’ll attract a larger number of customers who are likely to search for any combination of those long-tail keywords.

Location-based keywords are keywords that directly relate to your business’s physical location. For example, if your business is a bakery in a popular neighborhood in Charlotte, NC, you’ll want to include not only Charlotte, but also the name of that specific neighborhood. By doing so, you’re more likely to target visitors in your area rather than across town who may or may not ever make it to your location.

<h2>Avoid Keyword Stuffing</h2>

Speaking of misleading customers that may not find value in your business, adding practically any keyword under the sun is referred to as keyword stuffing and is largely considered a taboo in the digital marketing world. Like with any other digital marketing rule of thumb, less is more and quality will always conquer quantity. Ideally, a website’s content should include keywords in a natural way. However, by inputting keywords into a few sentences and repeating them over and over, you’re stuffing your content with keywords. Even if they’re good keywords, it’s still too much.

Now that you’ve read through these tips, you’re ready to become an SEO expert too!
